# azure_intro_assessment

## Types of services offered by Azure 

### Storage Services

#### Archive Storage 

The service of archive storage provided by Azure gives the user access to different tiers of storage for blob data, a collection of binary data which is stored as one state. Providing the option of different tiers for storage helps the user save money while expanding storage for your cloud as data can accumulate quickly. The tiers are organized from hot to archive. It is recommended that the hot tier is utilized by users who are actively utilizing the data stored in the cloud. As the tiers proceed to decrease to cool and cold, they are recommended for short term backup storage, large data sets wanting to be stored cost-effectively, and for data sets which are not as frequently used. The archive tier, the last tier, is used for data sets which are rarely accessed and the user would like to store the data long term. With each of these tiers, there is a given period of time the data set can be stored for. As for pricing, as the tiers go down from hot to archive the storage cost decreases as well, however the access cost increases. This service is beneficial for the user as it is a cost-effective manner to store data in the cloud. The tier options allow the user to decide what they would like to invest on based on what their project needs may be. Azure also allows the user to change the tiers in which they would like their data to be stored allowing the user to manage the lifecycle of the blob to their liking. An example of python interacting with this service would be through storage of SDK, the Azure libraries for python. In order to do this the user would have to install the necessary Azure python libraries within their Python virtual environment which can either be local or through cloud shell. The user would then have to write code inorder to create storage resources and follow by running the script in order to store blob. The last step would be to verify that a storage account was properly created in Azure through the users code.

#### Azure Data Share

The service of Data Share which is offered by Azure ensures that the data provider is able to share their data to a consumer or client while having control over the data in a cost effective manner. Additionally, this service provides the user access to a detailed history of all the consumers the data has been shared with which includes and is not limited to when the data was shared and what aspects of the data the consumer can access. In order to make data sharing safer, Azure requires the consumer to sign an agreement created by the data provider which outlines the access the consumer has to the data being shared before gaining access. Not only does this service make sharing critical data which is very important to companies and organizations safer but it is also a good method of quality control for managing with whom the data has been shared with. This is a beneficial tool as it can be hard to keep track of sharing history using methods such as emails and APIs. Azure offers two methods of sharing data, snapshot-based and in-place sharing. Snapshot-based sharing gives the consumer scheduled updates of the data, ensuring the consumer has the most recent version available to them. The provider who is sharing the data though the snap-shot based method has the ability to schedule when the consumer gets these notifications. The two options on the schedule are hourly or daily updates. Additionally the consumer can subscribe to these updates when they are signing their agreement to accept access to the data. When data is shared using in-place sharing, the consumer gets immediate access to changes made to the data and can view and query the data set live using their own data store. A great example of how python can interact with this service is when python code is deployed into Azure for applications and the user/provider would like to share their data with a client or in the case of HHA 504 with, our team members.  

### Computing Services 

#### App Service 

The App Service offered by Azure allows users to develop web applications using the coding application of their choice, which include and are not limited to Java and Python. The applications developed using Azure are capable of running well on Windows and Linux-based environments. Additionally Azure has the capability to continuously deploy code from platforms such as github which is a beneficial tool and will come in handy throughout the course of HHA 504. Through the use of App Service, the users data has perks of security, autoscaling, automated management and more. In terms of security, App Service allows the user to restrict specific IP addresses, prevent subdomain takeovers and more. The use of App Service is pay as you go which allows the user to determine their computing plan and save money by strategically using the computing resources when needed. Based on the project or the type of code the user is running and the time period it would take to run , the user can select their Azure App Service Plan. This is a great service to integrate the use of Python into as it is one of the languages Azure allows the user to develop with. This will be very helpful in class since we can deploy code changes saved onto github to the Azure environment in order to run applications we will develop. 

#### Azure App Configuration 

This service by Azure allows apps to be deployed in one or more geographical locations. This is a beneficial tool as apps which are cloud-based are usually run on multiple virtual machines in different locations, therefore having the ability to run an app in different geographical locations as well as environments is crucial. Additionally, the user is able to change settings within the app without needing to redeploy or restart the app again. This makes it easier and faster  to go back and make updates within the app. Through the App Configuration service, the user's data is also encrypted and is secure through enhanced security measures taken by Azure. Python can be integrated with this service as it is one of the languages which Azure provides an App Configuration client for.

### Database Services 

#### Azure Cache for Redis 

The service of Azure Cache for Redis has multiple uses. This service has the capability to upscale programs and improve the performance of an application. This is done using the software named Redis which has the ability to store and process large amounts of data. Due to its ability to process larger amounts of data it improves aspects of the performance of the application such as speed and latency. In other terms by using  this specific software there is a low latency and a higher-throughput in terms of the application’s performance. The frequently accessed information which is used to run the application is stored in the server memory. The server memory is a location where it is easy to write to and read from quickly when requests are being sent from the application. Additionally, Redis can be used in two methods the first as an open source and secondly as a commercial product. In both instances Redis has full compatibility with API and it can be run both outside and within the Azure platform. In terms of integrating this service with Python, the Redis software will be a helpful tool to run applications developed using the Python language at a higher speed. It would all allow the user to store a larger amount of data from the Python code in a more easy to access method.  

#### Azure Confidential Ledger 

This service provided by Azure provides the user with a safer method of managing sensitive data records. This would be a great tool to be utilized throughout the course of this Master’s program as it is a safety blanket for managing patient data we may be using in class for research or application development. The data stored would be tamper-protected and would ensure that HIPAA laws are not broken in the process of using data for a new healthcare application. Advantages of utilizing this service include ensuring metadata is not modified and all records/data are kept intact. Some other ways this service can be used during the application development process is to keep business transactions safe, update trusted members, granting permission to access these records, and more. One way to utilize this service with Python is by setting up a confidential ledger in order to add more security to patient records for an application for example which looks at patients blood pressure to suggest treatment or a doctor visit. 
